CHAPTER 3

Notes:
    How to connect to another computer:
        1. Ask the operating system for a socket
        2. Perform a DNS lookup
            Convert some URL (example.com) => (198.51.2.451)
        3. Connect to the socket.
        4. Send a receive data.
        5. Close the connection.

    How to listen for connections from a computer. (server)
        1. Ask the OS for a socket
        2. Bind the socket to a port.
            This is where the port number is assigned to the server.
            This is where other clients can connect to.
        3. Listen for connections
        4. Accept connections
        5. Send and receive data.
        6. Go back to step 3 and repeat.

Questions:
    What role does bind() play server side.
        It binds a socket to a port.

    Would a client ever call bind()
        Rarely client does not need to call bind() since the OS creates
        a temporary port when the client connects to a server.

    Speculate on why accept() returns a new socket as opposed to just reusing
    one we called listen() with.
        Maybe if the server was just limited to the one endpoint, multiple responses
        at once could not be possible? 

    What would happen if the server didn't loop to another accept() call? What would happen
    when a second client tried to connect?
        The client would not be able to connect the server would just stack incoming connections
        until the queue would fill up.

    If one computer is using TCP port 3490, can another computer use port 3490?
        Yes. Ports are computer specific. Using a specific port on one computer
        does not disable that port on all other computers.

    Speculate on why ports exist. What functionality do they make possible that plain IP
    addresses do not.
        A port is like a specific apartment number, the IP is just the address of the
        apartment, without the port number or apartment number, how could the package
        be sent to the right apartment number?

Definitions:
    Socket: Endpoint for communication. Combines an IP Address and a port number:
        e.g. 192.168.1.53:8080 (everything before the colon is the IP, after is port number)

    Port: Where data flows out of or into. A point of egress or ingress. Also uniquely 
    identifies processes or programs on a network.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER 4 (The Layered Network Model)
    Notes:
        Example HTTP request:
            When sending a request the HTTP browser builds something like this
            """
            GET / HTTP/1.1
            Host: example.com
            Connection: close
            """
            This is all the browser does.

            It just says "Send this data to that computer on port 80"

            Then the OS takes over.
                The browser want to send this over a
                stream oriented socket so the OS decides to use 
                the TCP protocol.

                TCP(HTTP(data))

                The browser wants to send the data to a remote computer
                with the specified IP address. It uses the IP protocol
                to do this.

                IP(TCP(HTTP(data)))

                Then the OS uses it's routing table to find where to send the
                data next. Let's say that the destination is somewhere in the LAN.
                So it uses the Ethernet header.

                Ethernet(IP(TCP(HTTP(data))))

                Finally the data is put on the wire. 
                (If it's WiFi we still say "on the wire")

            The layers on the destination computer are stipped in reverse order

            First Ethernet then IP then TCP then HTTP until the web server is given
            the HTTP data.

            What is the destination address was an intermediate router? 

            Router strips off the ethernet frame, looks at the IP address,
            finds which interface to send the packet from and then wraps up the
            data with another ethernet frame and send it to the next router in line.

    The Internet Layer Model
        Layer           Responsibility                                   Example Protocols
        Application     Structured application data.                     HTTP, FTP, TFTP, TELNET, SSH
        Transport       Data Integrity, packet splitting and reassembly  TCP, UDP
        Internet        Routing                                          IP, IPv6, ICMP
        Link            Physical, Signals on wires                       Ethernet, PPP, Token Ring

    The more general / big brother of the Internet Layer Model

    The ISO OSI Network Layer Model:

        https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/20250825185948477480/OSI-Model.webp


    Questions:
        When router sees an IP address, how does it know where to forward it?
            The router uses its routing table alongside the given IP address.

        If an IPv4 address is 4-bytes, roughly how many different different computers
        can that represent in total, assuming each computer has a unique IP address.
                256 * 256 * 256 * 256 or 256^4

        Same question but for IPv6 (16-bytes)
            2^128 possible unique addresses

        Speculate on why the IP header wraps up the TCP header in the layered model
        and not the other way around.
            Before the mailman can find a route and mail to your destination, there must
            be some mail that must be delivered first.

            i.e. The data must be packaged by the TCP protocol before it can be routed
            with the IP protocol

        IF UDP is unreliable and TCP is reliable, speculate on why one might ever use UDP
            If speed is a priority UDP might be the better choice. This is why the UDP
            protocol is used with many multiplayer games.

    Definitions:
        TCP: Transmission Control Protocol. Reliable in-order data transmission.
        Uses port numbers to identify senders and receivers of data.

        UDP: Somewhat of a sibling of TCP. Lighter weight, but cannot guarantee data
        will arrive, be in in-order, or that it won't be duplicated. If it arrives it will
        be error free.

        IPv4: 4-byte identifying number.

        IPv6: 16-byte identifying number.

        NAT: Network Address Translation. Gives organizations private subnets
        with addresses that are not globally unique which can get translated to
        globally-unique addresses as they pass through the router.

        Router: A computer that forwards packets through the packet switching network.
        It inspects addressees to determine which route will get the packet closer to
        its goal.

        IP: Internet Protocol. Takes care of identifying computers by using IP addressees
        and routes data to recipients using those addresses.

        LAN: Local area network. A network of computers connected directly. (Not by a router)

        Interface: Networking hardware on a computer. Normal computers might have two.
        Ethernet and wireless Ethernet interface.

        Header: Information that prepends data in the body of a message sent via some
        sort of protocol.

        Network Adapter: Network card on a computer.

        MAC Address: Ethernet interfaces have MAC addresses which take the form
        aa::bb::cc::dd::ee::ff. Any value can be a one-byte hex character. They
        are 6-bytes long and must be unique on the LAN. When a network adapter
        is created it is given a MAC Address that it will keep forever

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHAPTER 3

Notes:


Questions:


Definitions:
    Host: Another name for a computer. <  


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
